[Music]
all right everybody welcome to the sim
cast this is Chris acting son from
cinemasins joined as always by the voice
of cinemasins Jeremy Scott hello
and for music video since Barrett share
hi and we have a very special episode
here today yeah we have the Moulton's as
in Leonard Maltin and Jesse Moulton
right from Alton on movies which we just
did and now we're turning it on them
we're turning the focus on the may have
seen us trivia compete against Leonard
and Jesse mountains on the Schmo down
you may have heard Jesse guest on our
podcast a few months back via Skype and
now they are in town this week for the
Nashville Film Festival and we were not
gonna let them get away without having
them both guessed again in studio yes
and boy I couldn't be happier yeah
absolutely it's always great to have
guests who are in some form part of them
the industry that we're in and
everything we've had like some
interesting like guests and just in the
film industry like Sims er who does the
storyboard cuts and stuff like that
having actual movie critics and people
who know and love movies that's a that's
a big huge thing for us and especially
someone I've seen forever on TV and see
and and used to at Hollywood 27 used to
had the Leonard Maltin home video guide
me and a guy used to play a game with it
like used to try to guess the year the
actors in the movie all that type of
stuff you want that was the IMDB before
of course the IMDB was still around but
we couldn't access it at work you know
it was that book was the IMDB for us
glad you could join us well we're very
glad to be here yeah I think I speak for
both know at least one of you is glad to
be here I love I love listening to your
podcast Maltin on movies
I think what's looking yeah I feel like
the the guest that you have really
really open up to you guys and
way that I don't hear I don't hear that
anywhere else and it you don't get to
say you get you had some my yeah al
pacino I've never seen interview with Al
Pacino before and he just opens up like
he's just a normal guy and everything
yeah a weird imagine that we were we
were thrilled beyond words is all I can
say I can't pretend to have been plaza
now I have interviewed him before mm-hmm
multiple times actually but not a long
while yeah but I knew that we'd always
hit it off and had a good conversation I
know that he likes to talk you don't
have to drag things out of it that's
nice those things I knew going in but
past that nothing and we certainly he
was promoting his documentary about his
stage production of Salome mm-hmm which
he did like eight years ago something
like that and where he discovered
jessica chastain mmm Wow and this
documentary is our first oh the the film
of the the play the filmed record of the
production is Wilde salomé is the
documentary right Salome is the film so
it was her first thing so you could see
and he directed it yes so the
documentary is essentially the making of
both the stage production and also the
film and then the film is just the film
anyway you've got all Pacino in our
studio and we never dreamt that we would
ever bring up the Godfather or a dog day
after our Serpico no the man is filled
with stories yes yeah but we didn't know
I can always read my dad and I can
usually tell where he's going or what he
wants to ask and in this case we I could
see that we were both nervous mm-hmm
because you don't want to say so how
about the Godfather you don't want to do
that to him because first of all that's
not technically that's not what he's
there for
he's there for this but when he just
naturally started going into these
stories I looked over at my dad
in talking about him talking about
meeting the actual Frank Serpico and all
that that that that's just that's just
gold and and like I said you don't get
to hear that very often with a I don't
think I've ever seen an interview with
Pacino ever and if you do see an
interview it's because he's there to
just promote a thing and then they say
you get these these Tonight Show or
something like that three four minutes
sound bites and you guys are doing this
long-form on that interview that's
that's what we love about it I mean I've
been on the other side of that
microphone of that table as an author
promoting my books you know over the
years and I know that it's so it's such
a blessing when you get to talk for more
than six or seven minutes sure yeah and
that's what we get to do with our guests
is just talk in a relaxed setting and it
seems to it seems to give them the
ability to relax and they don't feel
uptight talking to us so I was watching
the YouTube video of your interview with
George Lucas I guess when the special
edition of Star Wars the original
trilogy Yemen and 95 oh by the way that
was well that was the first movie I ever
built in the theater in projection was
oh yeah Star Wars the reissue in New
Hope or 87 98 97 no you said that was
the first movie I ever built cuz they
did it did they do it all within the
same year all three it was January
February March yeah yeah yeah Fox in
spite of all that had happened from the
original trilogy when they reissued them
they still didn't think they were gonna
do that hot really yes well they were
actually taken aback they couldn't
believe the numbers they got the first
weekend they questioned oh maybe we
could still stagger the release a little
more drain a few more dollars out of
this they just didn't get it they were
huge weren't they
oh yeah you know January February March
release right sure yeah I mean I think
New Hope did better than all the other
ones
but they did they weren't like oh they
made a hundred million dollars again or
anything like that but they were I think
50 somewhere around there 50 million
yeah right there just for real yeah and
I guess we've kind of gotten used to
Lucas as this you know mythical figure
yeah very aloof in that interview very
kind of monotone is that what you got
from it too
I was just interested in what he had to
say I I was I'm asking about an
interview 20 years old but it's an
important one it's the one that I get
asked about all oh really
not asked about it's brought up to me oh
I can almost tell when it's coming it's
usually somebody 20 ish 25 issue they
come us when they say no the first time
I ever saw you I'll say no knowing what
the answer is I used to watch you
interview George Lucas on those original
Star Wars they sold 25 million cassettes
really a lot of people do yeah the only
VHS they've kept oh really
in any case we've never I had a nerd
friend explain this to me
they've never reissued the film's yeah
like I guess first and last time peels
are the exact versions that played in
theaters oh really
yeah yeah because I had that silver box
said there's a silver and a gold white
screen and that but you're forgetting
the other version of what people say
which is I used to have to fast-forward
through you all the time to watch Star
Wars was it in the beginning yes oh
really oh that but that's my favorite I
love it because there's it's so honest
it's just like oh my god
though I was I was very pleased with I
thought he was very responsive hmm
no he went in he went on yeah
inarticulate I talked him for over an
hour and a half
oh really and they cut them into seven
minutes Wow and at the time he was not
that readily available for interviews
hmm it was it was more of an event rent
having an interview with him anywhere in
any
you know in any medium and I said to the
people at Fox video put out a cassette
of the whole conversation he nothing he
said was dull mmm it was all interesting
and I'm not a Star Wars fanatic right
but I found everything he said
interesting and they wouldn't do it it
is very interesting to watch that now
where he's teasing the upcoming he's
like yeah maybe by 98 99 will be getting
another Star Wars story you asked him if
he wanted if he was interested in
directing anymore of course he ended up
directing the the prequels and
everything yeah it's just so fascinating
seeing that from this lens because I saw
one that was that was all condensed
together those those seven-minute
segments and you know you switched
positions and things like yeah but yeah
the way that he he kind of explained
this was as he said very interesting but
it also seemed just kind of you know
like he was pardon the pun on a
different planet
well George is not a cuddly warm fuzzy
type of guy he's very bright needless to
say and he and he loves talking about
his work hmm you know you don't have to
you don't have to push too hard get him
to talk about his work we have seen him
be cuddly we've seen the - oh yeah there
are two people in the world who can make
him that way
his kids no no Katie is I think my age
or around my age well I teach a USC hmm
George's alum alma mater rather mm-hmm
and this is the alma mater for whom he
wrote a check now maybe ten years ago
for a hundred and seventy five million
dollars million George that's all I need
he rebuilt the campus really or the
school of cinema and the whole camp
and when asked why the the New York
Times asked him why he did and he said
because cinema still isn't taken
seriously as an academic you know
filled by most universities and the one
thing universities respect is money yes
that is very true and that's why he
wanted to put on a good show build an
impressive place which he has done and
you know it shows incredible loyalty
yeah and it shows incredible foresight
to want to pass something along to the
next generation of filmmakers he comes
down like he comes down a lot to the
school for fundraiser stuff and they'll
do events he comes down so he really
puts his money where his mouth is like
hey he is there for school so one night
we have a break before I show new movies
and have the filmmakers some of the
filmmakers there afterwards for Q&A and
we have an opening section of the class
that's a long night and then there's a
break and one night during the break a
nice young girl comes over to me to
introduce yourself and because I have
like 350 students mmm don't get a lot of
one-on-one time she says hi my name is
Katie I said hi Katie nice to meet you
she said I think you know my father I
said really what does he do she said
he's a filmmaker I said what's his name
she said George Lucas she's she's lovely
and she's very bright and and yeah all
the good things but the first time that
we ever saw George really smile cuz in
photos he just doesn't normally smile
yes the first time I don't remember what
what event it wasn't USC that he was
there for it was a night Alex was part
of putting all that yeah yeah yeah I
don't remember what it was a gallery
there it was it I'm trying to leave it
was like the TV stuff the USC does a lot
of really really cool exhibition
exhibitions and he was there for one of
them and I saw him look at Katie and he
smiled hmm
really smiled and I just totally had
that moment of what he looked at her
like a dad looks at it
yeah and it was like oh my heart and I
suddenly like everything made sense a
bit that's fascinating so there is a
different thing we don't get to send
then we then we met him with his wife at
Sundance and he got to interview on
stage George Lucas and Robert Redford oh
wow like you do yeah but the best part
was backstage backstage was the
highlight where they were very loose and
very relaxed and we met his wife melody
it was a pretty remarkable arias she's
uh she's a financial whiz yeah
whip-smart
like you get it and she showed us so
first of all just watching in the same
way people like they think it's funny
the way that my dad and I are because
obviously you look at my dad with
reverence and a lot of people do
understandably so it's still my dad so I
will put bunny ears on him I can do all
the things that I think other people
might want to do and I can just do
whatever I want and it was a similar
kind of vibe watching them which is that
that's his wife she's not gonna take any
of his BS like there's not you know so
she's just calling him out on stuff and
and they're making fun of each other and
that was wild then she showed me at that
time their their their child was I'm
probably like a year little little guy
infant and she showed me this photo of
the two of them in bed with the same
crazy bed head like matching and George
was sleeping I remember about it is that
they look the same and it's so cute and
it was another one of those like this is
not real I'm seeing this photo of like
George in PJs with his infant child but
that that was really special to see him
kind of that's a side that she just
don't show you from he's always been
he's always been very nice to oh yeah
always always very very nice I've never
seen him be rude to and honestly I've
never seen him be rude to anyone he's
just very firm hmm so if he doesn't want
to do an interview he's not doing it if
he doesn't want to do something but but
frankly I get it you know it's kind of
like that thing if someone gets called a
diva yeah and some people are some
people are jerks but some people are
just very
firm mm-hmm and they tell you what they
want and how they want it and to me
there is a difference and if you're
polite about that then you do you well
yeah and there's a certain kind of
person like a George Lucas who has more
than earned the right to be particularly
yes about what you cannot walk down the
street that was part of it was that like
they have to ghost him in and out of
everywhere right and you get it and some
people are screaming you know what is he
gonna come out and do you know sign
autographs and take pictures it's like
no cuz then he'd never gone I've often
said stuff like Bobby Hill bad for
Taylor Swift she can't just go out for a
Starbucks without becoming like
front-page news on to you yeah sure sure
so yeah anyway derailed us what is this
class and what do you show there I
inherited a class I inherited a class
that George Lucas took oh really he was
a student Wow Ron Howard took this class
a lot of interesting people took this
class it was started about 1960 by then
very prominent film critic named Arthur
Knight mm-hmm who wrote the first one
volume history of phone called the
liveliest art which came out in a
paperback and it was everybody had this
book hmm I was in high school it was the
only book of its kind hmm just a you
know a really good solid comprar concise
but comprehensive history of film Arthur
went to USC and said you know you're
here in the middle of Hollywood why
aren't we inviting movie makers to bring
their current films down to campus and
so that's what they started doing when
he started doing that Alfred Hitchcock
was still making movies mmm but so is
John Cassavetes and he had them and
everybody in between well and so it was
very popular and it had a terrible name
theatrical films symposium it still has
that name never with a better one it was
known and the old days people called it
Thursday night at the movies and then
for years people just call it and still
call it by its course number which is
466 mmm-hmm
and if you meet anybody from USC who's
been in the film department or even just
around and you say just take 466 oh yeah
so he taught it
Arthur taught for many years then he
retired it was taken over by Charles
Chaplin who was for many years the lead
critic of the LA Times and kind of a
cultural ambassador in around town very
a classy guy very genteel and he did it
for quite a long time and more
interesting people took it and then they
then he retired and they hired somebody
to take his place who had turned out was
having personal issues involving alcohol
and that was a disastrous semester was
the fall so over the holiday break the
Associate Dean of the school at the time
Rick Jewell a wonderful guy took me to
lunch and wooed me hmm to see if I would
come in in January for the new semester
and take over this class and I said well
I'm flattered I know it's a famous class
I said I just don't know if I have the
time he said you don't have to grade
papers you don't have to book the films
of the guests we have somebody on staff
will do that you don't have to attend
faculty meetings I said essentially put
it pretty plainly said we just need you
there it's Thursday night huh that's
what we need I said well I'll give it a
try and 20 years later I'm still doing
it well in the interim I do I do get
involved in the booking of the films and
the guests with a wonderful guy who's on
staff who does all the heavy lifting in
that area but every now and then I have
a connection that I can use to help seal
the deal or I've seen a film he hasn't
yet and I said I'd love to show that so
we collaborate and so it's teaching at
its best mmm and though I regret not
having more of a relationship with my
students because it's such a large
auditorium sure I'm sure that's a very
popular of course it is a very fun
say what degree do they give to the
person who just takes that course over
and over because that would be my I've
had some students who've taken the three
times but that's what's crazy is because
it's semester by semester he's got like
700 kids a year yeah and 20 years yeah
so everywhere we go everywhere we go
professor Walton professor Moulton
professor Mullins well it's wild
anywhere we are someone comes over and
says professor multi-tier class in 1998
I took your cut you know whatever it is
Preston Walton freshman but I had two
unforgettable nights one was with Sidney
Poitier Wow who didn't want to show any
of the racially provocative movies and I
wanted to show the one with Tony Curtis
the Defiant ones no no he wanted to show
something more benign so we showed it
his request to Sir with love
Oh which is a very entertaining movie
everyone enjoyed it
and then there he was there's the man
and what's funny is he he doesn't really
like to talk about his movies he doesn't
have he's not an anecdotal guy about
those movie hmm but what he doesn't like
to talk about is his journey mm-hmm and
that's what he started to do and you
could hear a pin drop Wow he had that
class in the palm of his hand it was
fair and then afterwards stayed shook
hands with every student who wanted to
meet him gages undivided attention
a class act a lot of guests do that a
lot of the guests will stay and the kids
will line up and ask questions and
they're I mean for the most part they're
really generous with their time and yeah
yeah they're not allowed to ask for
autographs or photos because I gotta
take this class not appropriate to a
classroom yeah right one night when we
had you had Orlando Bloom and Mark
Ruffalo they started saying did you want
a photo did you want a photo
the other the other the last person I
had in that sort of theme of old movie
and older performer was Angela Lansbury
oh my god who had been willing to do it
for years but things kept getting in the
way
finally finally I got her and I showed
Frank Capra's State of the Union which
is a film with Spencer Tracy and
Katharine Hepburn Wow and the third lead
is an impossibly young Angela Lansbury
who always played older than she was
right yeah she was like 23 when she may
really yeah well she got her first Oscar
nomination for Gaslight when I think she
was 20 or 21 somehow well I may be off
don't hold me to these fact Woolf
actress but she came and she too just
incredibly candid and forthcoming she
talks without hesitation about her her
son's problem with drugs and how she
decided to deal with it which was to
move her family to Ireland hmm she felt
that la you know even the tonier part of
La was just not healthy hmm and he'd
fallen into this drug you know problem
so her kids went kicking and screaming
to Ireland where they bought a castle
she know it's been bought a castle and
they did straighten out their lives and
her son ended up directing some episodes
of Murder She Wrote yep and and so she
said she talked about all this well it's
a famous person telling pretty you know
pretty candid stuff so again I
interviewed her oh I showed I asked the
kids at the beginning of the class I
call them the kids my students there
most of them 20-somethings and I said
all right how many people know I said
this is not a test how many people know
who Angela Lansbury is every hand went
up I said this is from Murder She Wrote
probably right they said yeah no BAFTA
the British Academy of Film and
Television had done a tribute to her and
put together a terrific five-minute sort
of career reel
with baby pictures and you know tracing
her life and at one point they had from
a TV special her standing in front of an
orchestra
singing Beauty and the Beast and in the
middle of it it transitions to the
animated film know where she's mrs.
Potts and you heard from my class like a
wave so when I opened the evening to Q&A
and again they didn't quite know what to
ask and one girl sitting like in the
last row of this big auditorium says
could you sing beauty in the beach now
I'm about to I'm about to say oh it's
not fair you know it's late at night you
know yeah
she's 81 and you know you just can't do
that something in me shut up something
in me said just shut up and Miss
Lansbury said oh I couldn't well alright
and she sang the first couple of lines
oh my god Ella and the place went wild
yeah they went crazy and then afterwards
she like mr. Poitier stayed and shook
every hand and gave several minutes of
undivided attention to she asked each
one of what what is your major what do
you hope to do I cried I just cry
amazing moment okay so do you guys have
anything else I've got a million
questions but we can't keep would think
the mountains were coming in yes yes
thank you guys this is a treat for us we
don't get a chance to do these kind of
interviews very often when we're glad
that you're gracious with your time and
everything happy to be here with
flattered yeah thank you very much all
right well if you want to go to sin Kass
presented by cinemasins on Facebook or
SoundCloud or Twitter or anything you
want to comment about this episode
please do that be
right bring it tons of comments on the
lab tell everybody again where we can
find your guys's podcast and Twitter's
so our podcast is called Maltin on
movies and it's through Nerdist it's on
iTunes and Spotify like 17,000 different
places yes I have found some Maltin on
movies my dad is at Leonard Maltin on
Twitter and on Instagram and I'm at
Jessie Moulton same places and Leonard
Maltin dot-com yes definitely worth a
listen I listen to it all the time
really really good really down deep and
some that you know I mean some people I
would have never think to like Patton
Oswalt and Bill Hader know so much about
movies you know it's like it's I always
like those guys but I didn't know they
were that deep in yeah they are yeah so
go and listen to them and they're so
excited to just bring up my game that'll
do it for this week it's Chris Atkins
and Jeremy Scott Barrett share Jesse
Martin and Leonard Maltin we'll see you
next
[Music]